README.md, before:

# Resistance Calculator using Colour Detection and Mask RCNN

This is an app that uses an implementation of [Mask R-CNN](https://arxiv.org/abs/1703.06870) that is updated to tensorflow 2 compatible by [leekunhee](https://github.com/leekunhee/Mask_RCNN/tree/master) and various colour detection techniques. The idea of calculating the resistance of a resistor using computer vision is to first isolate the resistor using image segmentation. We have tried out different methods of image segmentation. E.g. Canny Edge Algorithm, Watershed Algorithm. 

# Mask R-CNN
Trained a model using COCO weights to detect resistors of various kinds. The training process is adapted from [balloon.py](samples/balloon/balloon.py) and the detection process is adapted from [demo.ipynb](samples/demo.ipynb).

### Segmenting Resistors
![Resistor Segmentation](assets/resistor_detect.png)

### Cropping out to get the isolated resistor
![Resistor Mask](assets/resistor_mask.png)

# Colour Detection
After extracting the resistor and padding the background with black, making colour detection of resistor bands more accurate, we now perform colour detection. To increase accuracy, we quantize the image using [scikit's implementation of K means algorithm](https://scikit-learn.org/stable/auto_examples/cluster/plot_color_quantization.html#:~:text=Performs%20a%20pixel%2Dwise%20Vector,preserving%20the%20overall%20appearance%20quality.). The range of the number of colours that works best for us is around 12 to 16. 

### Colour Quantization
![Image after Colour Quantization](assets/quantized_image.png)

![Identifying each colour](assets/testbrown-127.png)

![Identifying each colour](assets/testred-3.png)

For now, the colour detection is not able to detect all 4 colour bands reliably. 

## Requirements
Python 3.8.5, TensorFlow 2.5, Keras 2.0.8 and other common packages listed in `requirements.txt`.

## Bibliography
Waleed Abdulla.Mask R-CNN for object detection and instance segmenta-tion on Keras and TensorFlow.https://github.com/matterport/Mask_RCNN. 2017

Commit message:

Edited Readme. Renamed some files. Tested ColourSeparation.py. Sometimes works better with quantized images, sometimes works better with unquantized images. Cannot consistently detect gold colour.

README.md, after:

# Resistance Calculator using Colour Detection and Mask RCNN

This is an app that uses an implementation of [Mask R-CNN](https://arxiv.org/abs/1703.06870) that is updated to tensorflow 2 compatible by [leekunhee](https://github.com/leekunhee/Mask_RCNN/tree/master) and various colour detection techniques. The idea of calculating the resistance of a resistor using computer vision is to first isolate the resistor using image segmentation. We have tried out different methods of image segmentation. E.g. Canny Edge Algorithm, Watershed Algorithm. 

# Mask R-CNN
Trained a model using COCO weights to detect resistors of various kinds. The training process is adapted from [balloon.py](samples/balloon/balloon.py) and the detection process is adapted from [demo.ipynb](samples/demo.ipynb).

### Segmenting Resistors
![Resistor Segmentation](assets/resistor_detect.png)

### Cropping out to get the isolated resistor
![Resistor Mask](assets/resistor_mask.png)

# Colour Detection
After extracting the resistor and padding the background with black, making colour detection of resistor bands more accurate, we now perform colour detection. To increase accuracy, we quantize the image using [scikit's implementation of K means algorithm](https://scikit-learn.org/stable/auto_examples/cluster/plot_color_quantization.html#:~:text=Performs%20a%20pixel%2Dwise%20Vector,preserving%20the%20overall%20appearance%20quality.). The range of the number of colours that works best for us is around 12 to 16. 

### Colour Quantization
![Image after Colour Quantization](assets/quantized_image.png)

![Identifying each colour](assets/testbrown-51.png)

![Identifying each colour](assets/testred-3.png)


Another method we've tried is to convert the image to gray scale, then use adaptiveThreshold to filter out the background and the body of the resistor.

### Resistor with Yellow Band and Bleach coloured body
![Resistor](assets/SecondTest/resistor.jpg)

But for some resistors, yellow is quite close to the colour of the body of the resistor. And the resulting threshold mask excludes the yellow.

### Initial Mask
![Initial Mask](assets/SecondTest/thresh.png)

### Result of Applying Mask
![Result](assets/SecondTest/firstblob.png)

To include the yellow band, we've added the yellow mask into the initial mask to get a mask that includes the yellow band.

### Second Mask
![Second Mask](assets/SecondTest/newthresh.png)

### Result of Applying Mask
![Result](assets/SecondTest/secondblob.png)

For now, the colour detection is not able to detect all 4 colour bands reliably, especially with gold and silver. Sometimes, quantization improves the accuracy, other times it worsens the accuracy.

## Requirements
Python 3.8.5, TensorFlow 2.5, Keras 2.0.8 and other common packages listed in `requirements.txt`.

## Bibliography
Waleed Abdulla.Mask R-CNN for object detection and instance segmenta-tion on Keras and TensorFlow.https://github.com/matterport/Mask_RCNN. 2017
